Full documentation of AZSL & AZSLc. (#1158)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/atom-guide/dev-guide/shaders/azslc/_index.md

---
linktitle: AZSLc
title: AZSLc, The Amazon Shader Language Compiler

> description: Learn about the Amazon Shader Language Compiler in the Atom Renderer. 

Author: Fixed.

weight: 100
---

**AZSLc** is the front end compiler of the O3DE Shader Build Pipeline. It serves two purposes:
1. Transpile shaders written in AZSL into HLSL files.

> 2. Extract, in the form of JSON files, reflection data from the AZSL files: shader constants layout, resource binding information, shader variant options, etc.

Author: Fixed.

> Users of O3DE don't work directly with AZSLc, instead they rely on the Shader Build Pipeline to do all the shader compilation.

Author: Fixed.

> * Extract, in the form of JSON files, reflection data from the `.azsl` files including the shader constants layout, resource binding information, shader variant options, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extracts reflection data from the `.azsl` files including the shader constants layout, resource binding information, shader variant options, and more. The result outputs into JSON files. 
```

Author: Fixed.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Shader build pipeline

```
Consider adding a heading for this paragraph, so we can easily find it and get a glimpse of what its about.

Author: Done.

There are many command line arguments that can be given to **AZSLc**, of particular importance *--no-ms* is one of the optional arguments to highlight.  

> *--no-ms* Useful to transpile the usage of MSAA related functions and variables to their non-MSAA counterpart. More on this later.  

Author: Fixed.

  
**AZSLc** is an Open Source project hosted at: https://github.com/o3de/o3de-azslc.  

> It is available on Windows, MacOS and Linux.

Author: Fixed.

> New and updated `.azsl` source assets that are placed in project or Gem scan directories are automatically detected by **Asset Processor**. Shader asset builders provide process job information for the `.azsl` source assets to Asset Processor. When `.azsl` source assets are processed, AZSLc transpiles the shader source to high-level shader language (HLSL). The shader product assets are compiled for the specified target platforms by DirectX Shader Compiler (DXC) and SPIRV-Cross.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AZSLc, platform-specific shader compilers, shader asset builders, and **Asset Processor** work together to process `.azsl` source assets into product assets that the engine can consume. Asset Processor automatically detects new and updated `.azsl` source assets that are placed in project or Gem scan directories. Shader asset builders provide process job information about the `.azsl` source assets to Asset Processor. When `.azsl` source assets are processed, AZSLc transpiles the shader source to HLSL. The shader product assets are compiled for the specified target platforms by DirectX Shader Compiler (DXC) and SPIRV-Cross.
```
* Consider adding the first sentence to give a "big picture" of the process that you're explaining here. In my suggestion, I list the process being achieved and the different tools that are involved. I think a sentence like this is effective for learning because it simplifies the complex process that is the shader asset pipeline.

Author: Fixed.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on the shader build pipeline, refer to [Shader Build Pipeline](/docs/atom-guide/dev-guide/shaders/shader-build-pipeline).
```

* Reference the shader build pipeline docs here, I'm sure readers want to learn more.

Author: Done.

> The AZSLc executable is located in the `\Builders\AZSLc\` directory of the **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** build target directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running AZSLc

The AZSLc executable is located in the `\Builders\AZSLc\` directory of the **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** build target directory.
```
* Consider adding a heading for this paragraph, so we can easily find it and get a glimpse of what its about.

Author: Done.
